# CatanProject

Group Members: Coby Walsh, Sarah Diener, Colton Capps, Abby Butel
Team Leader: Coby
Project: The Board Game Catan
	The game Catan is a turn-based board game for 2-4 players. The winning player is the first player to acquire 10 victory points. There are a lot of rules to the game that are not explained in this paper. If you have any questions, I would recommend looking up the rules which have been linked here (https://www.catan.com/en/download/?SoC_rv_Rules_091907.pdf).
	One of the first problems that was brought up was the layout of the board itself. The board is hexagonal and requires that there be different classes to make up its components. One would be the individual vertices of the tile. These will hold information on whether or not a city or settlement has been placed their,  and will also be used as objects to create the tile class. The tile class will hold information of the resource and the dice roll required for that resource. The final class will be made up of the edges of the tiles to hold the roads. The roads will be used to calculate who has the longest road and see where a player is capable of building. This needs to be done because there is no viable way that we found to be able to fit all of this information into one array or even properly put it together with one class. This is to be done by Colton and is expected to be done by October 28.  
	Another important class that needs to be finished early on as a basic aspect of the game is the player class. The player class will contain information about each player such as the resources that they have, the development cards that they have, and most importantly keep a tally of their victory points. This class will need access or be able to be accessed by every other class. It also needs to have information in the board classes so that resources can be properly given to players. This is to be done by Abby and is expected to be done by November 8.  
	The GUI will be made using a premade class class swing. Swing is a lot like the java.util package. It is made up of several parts to be able to create a GUI with sprites that we can create. This will be an important part of the game that will be done in parallel to the rest of the game, adding sprites and keyboard/mouse input as we go. This will not have a set-in-stone due date because it is too dependent on other aspects and will be done in collaboration with the entire team to get sprites and manipulate them as needed.
	Development cards are another large aspect to the game. They are unique enough to justify creating their own class. The objects defined in this class will need to be handed over to the player class so that each player knows what cards they possess as well as the functions of those cards. One problem that we have already generated a solution for is the limited and defined number of cards in the deck of development cards. We figured we could account for this by instead of creating all of the cards as objects at the beginning and having to shuffle the objects. The cards will be created as they are drawn based on the probability of them appearing. This is to be done by Sarah and is expected to be finished by November 15. 
	The Robber is a lot like how development cards will be. There will be a lot of components that will need to be done before this can be tested. It is reliant on a functioning player class and the board being rendered correctly. The robber will need to be able to have access to the player class to be able to move resources as well as the tile class so that it can block resources from being given out while on that tile. This will be done by Sarah and should be finished by November 15.
	Our application class will all of the information for a turn. It will instruct players on what they can do and guide them through their turn. This class will need to be able to access all parts of the code. It will need to be able to facilitate everything from trading, to playing development cards and dice rolling for resource gathering. This will be where user input is recorded and actions are carried out based on that input. It will need to be developed alongside all of the other applications so they can be tested together. Like the GUI it will not have a set due date and will be done by Coby.
